## Community network discovery by weighting a random walk algorithm with ontological informatio

It is well known that individuals, objects and entities in the real-world can be shared between many groups or clusters. Individuals may belong to several affiliations and need not be uniquely assigned to a single organization. This is true of people in social networks and many other areas of business, commerce, medicine and science. Community detection is an important activity and allows the assessment and influence of key groups and agents (be they people or entities) as they cooperate and interact in their environments with other groups and agents. In this work we  identify overlapping community clusters or modules through a modified random walk algorithm that is biased by existing domain knowledge (ontologies). Random walks are good for detecting modules since they tend to stay in a local data space and generally do not wander too far away. The hypothesis is that the random walk may improve its module finding ability by using domain knowledge to a limited extent. That is to say it can find better, more plausible structures due to this additional information. The improvement would reduce the production of modules that are likely to be noise and therefore not valid. The tradeoff would be the loss of potentially novel discoveries (and valid) versus reducing the false positive identifications. 

Our system MINOAN: **M**odular **IN**ferencing using **O**ntologys **A**nd **N**etworks, builds a complex network based computational model from high accuracy data and ontological information. We develop a novel random walk algorithm that utilizes knowledge  for the detection of community modules by traversing the complex network. We test our system on a variety of different data from commerce, biology and science. We further validate our findings with the literature and compare our techniques with competing systems. 
